proposal for a bit more context/details (#5)
quarkiverse/quarkiverse-wiki: docs/Home.md

**NOTE** this content is still a draft - feedback welcome!

> Quarkus is a Kubernetes Native Java stack tailored for OpenJDK HotSpot and GraalVM, crafted from the best of breed Java libraries and standards, and it is also a ecosystem of ever growing extensions. In the beginning we were adding all extensions to the core Quarkus repository but eventually it became to much of overhead or just not always sensible to include an extension into the core. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quarkus is a Kubernetes Native Java stack tailored for OpenJDK HotSpot and GraalVM, crafted from the best of breed Java libraries and standards, and it is also a ecosystem of ever growing extensions. In the beginning we were adding all extensions to the core Quarkus repository but eventually it became too much of overhead or just not always sensible to include an extension into the core. 
```

> Quarkus is a Kubernetes Native Java stack tailored for OpenJDK HotSpot and GraalVM, crafted from the best of breed Java libraries and standards, and it is also a ecosystem of ever growing extensions. In the beginning we were adding all extensions to the core Quarkus repository but eventually it became to much of overhead or just not always sensisble to include an extension into the core. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quarkus is a Kubernetes Native Java stack tailored for OpenJDK HotSpot and GraalVM, crafted from the best of breed Java libraries and standards, and it is also a ecosystem of ever growing extensions. In the beginning we were adding all extensions to the core Quarkus repository but eventually it became to much of overhead or just not always sensible to include an extension into the core. 
```

Reviewer 2: aN ecosystem

> Some have since then created their own repositories external to Quarks, but others just never happeend because not everyone wants the overhead of maintaining a build setup while in other cases we actually had an idea for an extension but not solidified enough yet to be included in core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some have since then created their own repositories external to Quarks, but others just never happened because not everyone wants the overhead of maintaining a build setup while in other cases we actually had an idea for an extension but not solidified enough yet to be included in core.
```

Quarkiverse is our proposed solution to create a "home" for such extensions/projects.

#What is Quarkiverse

> This Quarkiverse github organization provides repository hosting (including build, CI and release publishing setup) for Quarkus extension projects contributed by the community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Quarkiverse GitHub organization provides repository hosting (including build, CI and release publishing setup) for Quarkus extension projects contributed by the community.
```

Quarkus extensions hosted in the Quarkiverse organization will by default be included into the Quarkus extensions catalog displayed on [code.quarkus.io](http://code.quarkus.io) and the Quarkus command line tools (such as `mvn quarkus:list-extensions`, `gradle listExtensions`). To stay listed only requirement

> is that the extension keeps functioniong, stays uptodate and cause no harm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is that the extension keeps functioning, stays up to date and cause no harm.
```

Reviewer 2: I find the last sentence not easy to read. Also "cause no harm" sounds obscure to me. I would say something like "The only condition for an extension to be listed in the catalog for a specific Quarkus version is to be compatible with that Quarkus version, which is verified by the extension's testsuite."

# Why Quarkiverse

In the early days and actually up until recently, Quarkus extensions contributed by the community members (including the core Quarkus team) have been welcome in the Quarkus core repository at https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus. Today the core repository has grown a lot and it's evident that it simply becomes troublesome to work with it for its contributors. That and other maintenance and infrastructure related issues inspired the creation of a separate organization called Quarkiverse to host Quarkus extension projects contributed by the community (including the Quarkus core team members themselves).

The advantages to join Quarkiverse are:

>   . Automated and secured publishing of your maven releases to Maven Central.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  . Automated and secured publishing of your Maven releases to Maven Central.
```

  . Automated Cross-testing of your extension with Quarkus builds/releases (see https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus-ecosystem-ci)
  . Inclusion in registry used by Quarkus tooling to browse extensions (i.e. code.quarkus, command line and IDE tools).
  . Consistent formatting and release of project

>   . Quarkus team members can help and fix issues if project has build issues.

Reviewer 2: There is no such promise though. Perhaps, we shouldn't advertise that. That could create a false expectation.

Reviewer: I agree, at the bare minimum we should say that it would have higher visibility, so community members can contribute too

Author: I've added a "in emergency" - i'm not listing it here as a promise it will happen but to be transparent that by being in here we have the possiblity to do fixes in case maintainer is missing-in-action.

  
Note: While the Quarkus project has the "keys" to publish under `io.quarkiverse`, each project in Quarkiverse is driven and maintained by 
the lead of that project. They decide what happens with the project - Quarkiverse will just expect releases to be compatible with Quarkus - if a project
for some reason cannot do a release we can in the best scenario help or in the worst scenario we'll temporarily exclude the project from the registry to avoid

> end-users to have a bad experience.

Reviewer 2: It's not like we are going to remove it. I don't think we will ever need to remove anything. If an extension is released it's added to the catalog for that Quarkus version. If a new version of Quarkus is released and the extension for some reason is not passing the tests with it we are not *adding* it to the new catalog for that new version of Quarkus. But it is also not removed from the catalog of the previous version of Quarkus which is still available for the users.

Author: I'm not fully following what is unclear here - we will/should remove extensions that doesn't work. 

I've made an update to say it can also just be a partial removal in case you are interpreting completely removal always.

Reviewer 2: Are you talking about an extension that has zero releases and seems like it will never be released?
It depends on what you mean by remove. An extension may be compatible with versions of Quarkus in a specific version range and not compatible outside of that version range. Which should be reflected in the repository. In which case there is nothing to remove.

Reviewer: FYI a prerequisite for an extension to be included in the catalog is to have at least one release.

Reviewer 2: So what kind of removal are we talking about here?

 
If you do not want to commit to the above guidelnes then you are more than welcome to publish an extension outside of Quarkus or Quarkiverse; and then you can

> still be listed in the registry - it is just not handled automtically. In this case we do please request you use your own group id to clearly identify those artifacts are from a third-party.

Reviewer 2: "In this case we do please request you use..." I'd just say "In this case please use..." It'll be easier to read.

> still be listed in the registry - it is just not handled automtically. In this case we do please request you use your own group id to clearly identify those artifacts are from a third-party.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
still be listed in the registry - it is just not handled automatically. In this case please use your own group ID to clearly identify that those artifacts are from a third-party organization.
```

# Joining Quarkiverse

Projects hosted in the Quarkiverse organization on github should respect the following conventions and policies.

## Identify Project Maintainer ##

> Each project will have a github team, and in here at least one must be listed and active as maintainer. This is the person that will be expected to lead and drive the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each project will have a GitHub team, and in here at least one must be listed and active as maintainer. This is the person that will be expected to lead and drive the project.
```

## Repository name

The repository name under the quarkiverse organization should be `quarkiverse-<project-name>`. This will help avoid potential conflicts when cloning and/or forking the repository.

## Project's Maven artifact `groupId`s

The Maven `groupId` of the project's artifacts should follow the following format: `io.quarkiverse.<project-name>`. In other words, the project’s `groupId` should start with the `io.quarkiverse.` prefix followed by the project-specific unique name in which dots aren't allowed.

## Root package name

> The root package name is expected to be the same as the project’s Maven artifact `groupId`, i.e. `io.quarkiverse.jberet`, if project name is `jberet`.

Reviewer 2: if THE project name

> The root package name is expected to be the same as the project’s Maven artifact `groupId`, i.e. `io.quarkiverse.jberet`, if project name is `jberet`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The root package name is expected to be the same as the project’s Maven artifact `groupId`, i.e. `io.quarkiverse.jberet`, if the project name is `jberet`.
```

## Parent POM

All Quarkiverse projects are expected to use [io.quarkiverse:quarkiverse-parent](https://github.com/quarkiverse/quarkiverse-parent) as the parent POM.
This POM contains common project release and artifact publishing configuration.

## Provide mechanism to do cross-testing of named quarkus core and platform versions

All Quarkiverse projects should have a build and test suite that can be parameterized to use specific Quarkus and Platform versions to ensure we can get
early warning of issues of master builds; but also to verify compatibiltiy with maintanence branch/tags.

> Mechanism is To be defined, but something like having a script that will take quarkus core and quarkus platform Group, Artifact and IDs.

Reviewer 2: THE mechanism. I would also clarify that the typical platform would be io.quarkus:quarkus-bom. I think people may be confused what a platform is.

Author: I would expect it to be universal platform, not just the core.

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't pick the universal one but the minimal one. Simply because some extensions could be developed as alternatives or be for some other good reason incompatible.

Author: We are talking about cross testing here - not about the extensions own build.

This is about identifying possible conflicts/issues.

universal platform seems to be a good fit for that afaics and makes the extension verified to work with that platform.

We can *add* another cross-test for core if that helps ?

Reviewer 2: Right. Let's identify a couple of testing points here. An extension will be using some platform for its built. So, when a new version of that platform is released it makes sense to test the extension against the new version of the platform the extension is using in its own build.
Then there is an option to try and test the extension with some other platform.
I was just saying that a typical extension project will most probably be based on quarkus-bom.
